---
layout : post
title : pwnable.kr Toddler's Bottle Collision write-up
---

## Pwnable.kr FD challenge

Once you SSH in to the challenge username, the code of the challenge is
available.

```C
#include <stdio.h>
#include <string.h>
unsigned long hashcode = 0x21DD09EC;
unsigned long check_password(const char* p){
	int* ip = (int*)p;
	int i;
	int res=0;
	for(i=0; i<5; i++){
		res += ip[i];
	}
	return res;
}

int main(int argc, char* argv[]){
	if(argc<2){
		printf("usage : %s [passcode]\n", argv[0]);
		return 0;
	}
	if(strlen(argv[1]) != 20){
		printf("passcode length should be 20 bytes\n");
		return 0;
	}

	if(hashcode == check_password( argv[1] )){
		system("/bin/cat flag");
		return 0;
	}
	else
		printf("wrong passcode.\n");
	return 0;
}
```

This program is quite straightforward also. The program is reading 20 characters/bytes worth of char array.
In the check_password function, the memory containing these 20 bytes is traversed via an int pointer, thereby
treating the memory as 5 4-bytes of consecutive integers.

These values are then added up. If the total is equal to a fixed value `0x21DD09EC` then the input is successful
and the flag is successfully catted out.

It's pretty obvious that they are an infinite number of solutions to these problem, instead of one unique combination of
characters.

The way I tried to approach this was first I wrote a C program to understand how the input is interpretted.
So, the input `AAAA` was interpreted as `0x41414141`, as expected.

So the answer can be `"AAAA"*4 + <some 4 characters>`
I added the integer value if "AAAA" and it was more than the required number. So I used the integer overflow trick.
This gave me the value of the 5th integer. Using which I got the equivalent string "ASCII" characters.

I used the ```Python python -c '"print "\x7f"'``` method to craft the required input.

__Note__: This input wasn't deployed properly in ipython as even `chr()` would display the hex value.
Works fine on the normal terminal.


Flag: __daddy! I just managed to create a hash collision :)__

